# user online session data analysis and product recommendation system

In this project, we want to deal with e-Commerce user behavior data to understand customers better and bring more profits to business. We did three important analyses to e-Commerce users and products: Data visualization, User attribute generation and user-product rating and recommendation system.  
We collected data about online users’ action from Kaggle. Our dataset contains behavior data for 5 months (Oct 2019 – Feb 2020) from a medium cosmetics online store. The dataset has 20,692,840 rows with 9 features. For feature engineering we added 6 columns/variables that are calculated from the original data, which are: event hour, session count, purchases per session, purchase times per session, total purchase, cart per view to do the analysis.  
In terms of data visualization we used python to do descriptive analysis about our data and presented the data attributes with four charts.  
Then we used python and SPSS to generate user attribute, including user profile and user clustering. There were four clusters in our model. The largest cluster occupied 98.2% of our data, while the smallest cluster held less than 0.1% of the dataset. Cluster-1, occupying the most significant percentage of users, was a cluster representing “light users.”  They loved browsing instead of taking actions. Only eight purchasing behaviors would happen in 100 sessions. Each user in cluster-1 contributed an average of 2.01 dollars to the website’s sales. However, considering the vast amounts of users, their purchasing power is enormous and indispensable.  Cluster-4 users visited nearly surfed our shopping website every week. Every time they visited, they would like to purchase more than five products and contribute 29 dollars on average. The total sales they made were huge. They were rich, openhanded, and consumeristic.  Users in cluster-2 also spent a lot of money. However, they seldom visited our shopping website. They had a concrete target. Once they found the target product, they would buy lots of them. They would not be the best targets of our recommendation system, so we may consider give up making recommendations to them to reduce costs. The most typical characteristic of users in cluster-3 views a lot while purchase few.  
Finally, we created a user-product rating algorithm and used ALS algorithm to get top ten products for each user. Then we provided corresponding recommendations according to their preference. For cluster-1 users, we may make the shopping website more appealing and provide more promotions and discount to them at their most concentrate event hour. For cluster-4 users, we decided to put more advertisements about their preferred products and related categories at their concentrate event hour and enhance the advertisement frequency, since they are our important targets. According to cluster-2 users’ requests and preference, we can recommend products to them directly like sending email to satisfy their demands instead of investing a lot in the advertisement. For cluster-3 users, we can just recommend their preferred products rather than related categories to reduce costs.
